xvi INPRODUOTJON.

distinguished statesmen mentioned above. Sallust
therefore is the first Roman historian whose account
oi these times hecame generally accepted by his own
countrymen us authoritative. He owes this distinction
probably quite aa much to the charm of his style, as te
any presumed authenticity in his narration. Indeed
he seems to have been the first of the Roman writers
who made style a matter of primary importante The
idea however that he took Thucydides for his model,

rests upon the occurrence of a few philosophicel re· i

flexione, which seem to be‘directly imitated from the
Greek writer. ·In the mere form of Sallust’s expres·

siens it would be ‘difficult' to point out any such

resemblances to his supposed muster. Seneca speaks
oorreotly of his amputata sauata et certa cade ec
spectatam cadentia. The charge against him of effect

· ing archuic words was mede by his own contemporaries.

Lenaeus, above spoken oi ealle him macorano Catenis-
qae uerborum immaditiesiocamfarem. Another writer,
Ateius the grammarian, was supposed to have assisted
the historiari by collecting antique words for him to
interweave with his own language.

I cannot however! distinguish any such character
in Sellust’s extant writings. In the Catilina and
Jagwrtha there is not, I believe, a single word used
which is not also of frequent occurrence in contem·
*porary and later writers It is prohahle indeed thet
he clung to theold orthography of many words at a
time when great innovatione in that respect were

 

